How to access notes: 

Type: DINI (like that) 

 


  

how do networks work? 

Devices: 

Computers, smartphones, printers, etc. 

Each has a unique IP address. 

 

Data Transmission: 

Data is sent as messages. 

Travels over cables or wirelessly. 

 

Routers: 

Act as post offices directing data. 

Forward messages between devices and the internet. 

 

Ports: 

Each device has multiple ports for different services. 

 

Direct data to specific applications (e.g., email, web browsing). 

Protocols: 

Sets of rules for communication (like neighborhood rules). 

Ensure data is sent and received correctly (e.g., TCP/IP). 

Firewalls: 

Security measures to protect networks. 

Block unauthorized access and filter traffic. 

Types of Networks: 

LAN (Local Area Network): Connects devices in a small area (like a home or office). 

WAN (Wide Area Network): Connects devices over larger distances (like the internet). 

Switches: 

Connect devices within a LAN. 

Forward data to specific devices based on MAC addresses. 

Permisions (Octal notatiem)
example (-|r-x|rw-|rw-)
r: read
x: executable
w: write
-: nothing
each section indecated by "|" is a section of persons
the first one before the first "|" is what the permission is permissioning, - is file and d is directory
the second section is what the owner of that file/directory can do
the third one is what the group (connected to the owner) can do
the last one is what anyone else can do
normaly, chomd +x is what is used for activating the file, but it allowes anyone with the file, including strangers, to exicute it.
Though, with Octal notatiem, you can change the permisions on how u like
to do this do;

chmod _ _ _ (numbers are spaced)
the order of underlines are: owner, group and other
you must use numbers in order to activate chmod (btw chmod is "change modifacation")
here are the numbers:
7 = rwx
6 = rw-
5 = r-x
4 = r--
3 = -wx
2 = -w-
1 = --x
0 = ---

Users and permissions;
First of all, The main system actully has to make the code for the users, in order to do that, it "defines" what the systems are and how their used
The first section, Users;
Users are like accounts, they have names and hold value. Under that, users can be could be represented in 4 general types:
Root user: usally owns the actuall system. Has the highest form of permission.
Regular user: Someone who is ascociated to the Root user in some way, and has somewhat limited access.
Daemon user: !Not a person! The account of which runs background scripts (without notice) autonomisly. An example is, a system activates whenever you click a file
and checks whether or not you have access.
Guest: Has very limited access.

File systems are a structure for the MAIN system to organize, store and manage files on a device. This allows easy access of files.
Theres a problem, if you were to leave it like that, anyone can access anything from any file or directory. How do we solve that? With permissions
Permissions govern the file system so that nobody accessess what is not allowed. The only way to gain access is by having the correct permissions.
An example is a website, if somebody were to access the website because there is no permissions, they gain access and can change anything.
But with permissions, only some people are allowed to make changes while everybody cannot.


